Add Best Practice: Always declare attributes on consumable/resolvable configurations (#36361)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/best-practices/best_practices_dependencies.adoc

=== Tags

`<<tags_reference.adoc#tag:dependencies,#dependencies>>`

[[use_attributes_on_configurations]]
== Always Declare Attributes on Consumable and Resolvable Configurations

When creating custom configurations that are meant to be consumed or resolved, always declare at least one <<variant_attributes.adoc#variant-attributes,attribute>> on them.

=== Explanation

> Gradle uses <<variant_aware_resolution.adoc#sec:understanding-variant-selection,variant-aware dependency resolution>> to select the appropriate artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gradle uses <<variant_aware_resolution.adoc#sec:understanding-variant-selection,variant-aware dependency resolution>> to select the appropriate variants of a project.
```

Reviewer: can also use `producer` or `component` to be more precise -- though this is talking about declaring configurations in a project so using `project` may be more familiar here

Attributes serve as the primary matching mechanism between resolvable configurations (what a consumer needs) and consumable configurations (what a producer provides as variants).

Even if a producer project has only one consumable configuration, omitting attributes will cause variant-aware resolution to fail with the following error:

[source,text]
----
Unable to find a matching variant of project :producer:
  - No variants exist.
----

While Gradle can resolve configurations by selecting them directly by name, this approach is outdated:

> - It was <<upgrading_version_8.adoc#selecting_variant_by_configuration_name,deprecated for Maven repositories>> in Gradle 8.10 and removed in Gradle 9.0.0. It is only recommended for Ivy repositories.

Reviewer: The only use case I think this is still valid for is if the project is trying to "act" as an ivy component. You should only really use this for a project if you're going to publish that project to an ivy repository.

This mechanism can still be used for local project dependencies, but should be avoided.
- Configuration names should be treated as internal implementation details. Relying on them for resolution forces the consumer to know too much about the producer's internal structure.

When adding attributes to a configuration, common attributes to use include:

* `Category.CATEGORY_ATTRIBUTE` - Indicates the category of the component (e.g., `LIBRARY`, `DOCUMENTATION`)
* For JVM Projects:
** `Usage.USAGE_ATTRIBUTE` - Indicates how the dependency is used (e.g., `JAVA_RUNTIME`, `JAVA_API`)

> ** `LibraryElements.LIBRARY_ELEMENTS_ATTRIBUTE` - Indicates the type of library elements (e.g., `JAR`, `CLASSES`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Usage.USAGE_ATTRIBUTE` - Indicates which classpath this varuabt represents (e.g., `JAVA_RUNTIME`, `JAVA_API`)
** `LibraryElements.LIBRARY_ELEMENTS_ATTRIBUTE` - Indicates the packaging of the classes (e.g., `JAR`, `CLASSES`)
```

Using `how [it] is used` to define Usage and `library elments` to define LibraryElements uses the word to define the word, sora defeating the purpose of a definition

Reviewer: Looks like I don't know how to spell `varuabt`
